OSDOCS-14169:CUDN localnet (#93001)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-udn-additional-config-details.adoc

The `joinSubnets` field configures the routing between different segments within a user-defined network. Dual-stack clusters can set 2 subnets, one for each IP family; otherwise, only 1 subnet is allowed. This field is only allowed for the `Primary` network.

|`spec.network.<topology>.excludeSubnets`
|`spec.<topology>.exlcudeSubnets`
|string
|Specifies a list of CIDRs to be removed from the specified CIDRs in the `subnets` field. The CIDRs in this list must be in range of at least one subnet specified in `subnets`. When omitted no IP address is excluded and all IP addresses specified in `subnets` are subject to assignment. The format should match standard CIDR notation,for example, `10.128.0.0/16`. This field must be omitted if `subnets` is unset or the `ipam.mode` field is set to a value of `Disabled`.

> When the `physicalNetworkName` field  points to OVS bridge mapping of a network with reserved IP addresses that are not assigned by OVN-Kubernetes, the specified CIDRs will not be assigned. For example, if `subnets: "10.0.0.0/24"` are set and `excludeSubnets: "10.0.0.200/30" are as well, the following addresses will not be assigned to pods: `10.0.0.201`, `10.0.0.202`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the `physicalNetworkName` field  points to an  Open vSwitch (OVS) bridge mapping of a network with reserved IP addresses that are not assigned by OVN-Kubernetes, the specified CIDRs will not be assigned. For example, if `subnets: "10.0.0.0/24"` is configured and `excludeSubnets: "10.0.0.200/30" is also specified, the following addresses will not be assigned to pods: `10.0.0.201`, `10.0.0.202`.
```

> When the `physicalNetworkName` field  points to OVS bridge mapping of a network with reserved IP addresses that are not assigned by OVN-Kubernetes, the specified CIDRs will not be assigned. For example, if `subnets: "10.0.0.0/24"` are set and `excludeSubnets: "10.0.0.200/30" are as well, the following addresses will not be assigned to pods: `10.0.0.201`, `10.0.0.202`.

Reviewer 2: This paragraph reads a bit strange. It kind of implies the `physicalNetworkName` is relevant here.

IMHO, it is not. What matters is the user's intention and/or the services (not speaking about Kubernetes services here ...) they have deployed in their physical network - whatever IPs there are in the physical network must be explicitly listed in the exclude subnets, to prevent IP duplicates in the subnet.

Author: Updated. Does this work? @maiqueb

**Disabled:** +
When disabled, OVN-Kubernetes only assigns MAC addresses and provides layer 2 communication, which allows users to configure IP addresses. `Disabled` is only available for layer 2 (secondary) networks. By disabling IPAM, features that rely on selecting pods by IP, for example, network policy, services, and so on, no longer function. Additionally, IP port security is also disabled for interfaces attached to this network. The `subnets` field must be empty when `spec.ipam.mode` is set to `Disabled.`

|`spec.network.<topology>.mtu`
|`spec.<topology>.mtu`
|integer
|The maximum transmission units (MTU). The default value is `1400`. The boundary for IPv4 is `576`, and for IPv6 it is `1280`.

> |`spec.network.localnet.vlan`

Reviewer 3: Can we add entry for physicalNetworkName?

Author: Done

|`spec.network.<topology>.mtu`
|`spec.<topology>.mtu`
|integer
|The maximum transmission units (MTU). The default value is `1400`. The boundary for IPv4 is `576`, and for IPv6 it is `1280`.

|`spec.network.localnet.vlan`
|N/A
|object
|This field is optional and configures the virtual local area network (VLAN) tagging and allows you to segment the physical network into multiple independent broadcast domains.

|`spec.network.localnet.vlan.mode`
|N/A
|object
|Acceptable values are `Access`. A value of `Access` specifies that the network interface belongs to a single VLAN and all traffic will be labelled with an `id` that is configured in the `spec.network.localnet.vlan.mode.access.id` field. The `id` specifies the VLAN `id` (VID) for access ports. Values must be an integer between 1 and 4094.

|`spec.network.localnet.physicalNetworkName`
|N/A
|string

> |Specifies the name for a physical network interface. The value you specify must match the `network-name` parameter that you provided in your Open vSwitch (OVS) bridge mapping.

Author: @ormergi add your request here.

Reviewer 4: Would it make sense a link to the doc where we describe how to configure the OVS bridge mapping?

|`spec.<topology>.mtu`
|integer
|The maximum transmission units (MTU). The default value is `1400`. The boundary for IPv4 is `576`, and for IPv6 it is `1280`.

|`spec.network.localnet.vlan`
|N/A
|object

> |This field is optional and configures the virtual local area network (VLAN) tagging and allows you to segment the physical network into multiple independent broadcast domains.

Reviewer 2: should we indicate here this attribute is only allowed in localnet topologies ?

|`spec.network.localnet.vlan.mode`
|N/A
|object

> |Acceptable values are `Access`. A value of `Access` specifies that the network interface belongs to a single VLAN and all traffic will be labelled with an `id` that is configured in the `spec.network.localnet.vlan.mode.access.id` field. The `id` specifies the VLAN `id` (VID) for access ports. Values must be an integer between 1 and 4094.

Author: Need to keep the nouns for `Access`.

|`spec.network.localnet.physicalNetworkName`
|N/A
|string

> |Specifies the name for a physical network interface. The value you specify must match the `network-name` parameter that you provided in your Open vSwitch (OVS) bridge mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Specifies the name for a physical network interface. This value you specify must match the `network-name` parameter used in your Open vSwitch (OVS) bridge mapping.
```
